I'm in the computer history museum in California Mountain View,
and among all the thousands of artifacts there is also this:
A teardrop tea kettle.
The best known tea kettle in the world.
It's called the Utah kettle and you've certainly seen it,
although you may not be aware of it.
Or at least its digital version.
In the old screensaver of Windows Pipes
occasionally instead of a joint
discovered a kettle.
This kettle.
We find it in the background of the Simpsons episode of ninety years
and in several Pixar movies.
It's a joke among animators
because it is the first realistic, complex object,
which was widely used in computer graphics.
In 1974, scientist Martin Newell of Utah University needed
simple object to test the algorithm he proposed.
The story says he gave his wife a cup of tea -
Newell was born in Britain, so tea -
and she suggested she model a teapot.
And that was ideal.
It has a concave and convex surface.
He can throw a shadow on himself,
which is a problem that some algorithms have to solve the problem.
It is instantly recognizable;
you can tell if the tea kettle looks like a teapot,
or if something went wrong while processing.
And you do not have to texture it to look good.
As long as it is simple, light and
well ... looks like a tea kettle.
But at the same time it is not too complicated. In the seventies
computer graphics included a lot of manual work.
Newell sketched a pot of millimeter paper
and then manually enrolled the resulting coordinates.
And here's something I really like on this kettle:
in the forty years of what its digital version exists,
details have forgotten her.
It is said to have been used so often for early graphic experiments,
that some people memorized all of her data
and simply wrote them when they needed it.
Can I find a reliable source for this?
Of course not,
but it's a great story.
At some point, this kettle squeezed a little,
some people claim that due to old displays with rectangular pixels,
and some say it's just because it looked better.
It is a remnant of the digital era that has urban legends around it,
whether they are true or not,
here is the canonical version of this kettle:
a digital object that has been copied and copied to all branches of modern culture.
Virtually billions of people have seen - not this kettle -
but its version, which can be described by page numbers.
Thanks to the Museum of Computer History in Mountain View, California!
Look into the label for a link to their site and the amazing exhibitions they have here.